---
layout: post
title: "MFA, Alabama, and thoughts therein"
---

While I've found interesting and meaningful work in Platform studies, that's definitely *not* where I thought I would be some four years ago.

I started graduate school as an MFA at the University of Alabama, it was through accident (and interest on my end), that I enrolled in Dr. Amber Buck's post-truth rhetorics class, and was *excited* by the challenges it posed. 

But with both programs, MA and MFA, it was disheartening to see the best, caring, most supportive and engaged professors systematically pushed out with little to no thought as to their replacement.

I entered the MFA with excited by the prospect that people would support and challenge my work, I left with a committee member *forgetting my genre a week before I defended*.

I saw my fellow poets--wonderful, interesting, and incredibly talented people--pushed into teaching two first year comp classes per semester, in which they had little training and no interest, while their would-be mentors vanished.

My peers who enrolled in the MFA professionalization class wasted their time, as the only thing taught in the class was that *there were no opportunities* (which was patently false).

No one I know recieved instruction one querying agents, on creating a brand, on ensuring that their work would be readable. These things were outside the artistic concerns of our august faculty, living well on 20 years of tenure.

The whole thing felt like an abdication of duty from a few tenured, administratively powerful, overpaid, once-qualified, out of touch writers more interested in the politics of the University system than supporting their students. 

Don't get me wrong, I'm incredibly greatful to the kind and supportive professors who helped us get through (the incredible Michael Martone among them). But when the best are pushed away, and the worst awarded with administrative positions, money, and multiple grad-students to build the courses, and do the work, they refuse to do... what even *is your program anyomore?!*

Being in the MFA program at my time was like arriving at the remains of a wild and irresponsible party. A 20-year long orgy of artistic ridiculousness that culminated in the harvesting of prospective writeres into the grist of first year composition. 

I found value in the wonderful, talented people who continue to succeed in spite of the ritualized farce of legitimate support built on the ruins of a once well-regarded program. 

