---
layout: post
title: What even is Connectivity?
---

How do we engage with Connectivity in a changing web?
---


Since first studying Discord in my masters programs I was troubled by the extant literature on protest mobilization. Not so much that there was anything *wrong* with the theory: they all were excellent, insightful, often rooted in both structured inquiry and ethnographic experience. However, their analysis, theories, and assumptions, are often excellent models of the political uses of platforms from 2014, not 2022.

My contention, then, is that these models are being utilized to uncritically inform recent work on platform ecosystems and protest mobilization both. For example, in Bennet and Segersberg's *The Logic of Connective Action*, they don't even *define* connectivity, even though connectivity as a concept is central to their work: it's just assumed to be part and parcel with the internet and political action therein. 

At the same time, the platforms I study, those I am half-convinced are representative of the direction of the internet in the coming years, are decidedly *not* connective in the traditional sense (insoafar as they do not curate user discourse to other users) and are continually treated as afterthoughts to the real connective web, or the places where extremists go to fester.

### My Planned Intervention: Non-Connective sociality in a Connective Web

As my current interest is to complicate our definitions of blanket connectivity through closer study of platforms like Discord and Telegram. In doing so, I hope to eventaully contribute towards a more robust understanding of our platform ecosystem.

I have a lot of work ahead of me if I'm going to make that happen. And it could be that I'm just plain wrong. However, even if the end result doesn't look like what I imagine here, I cannot help but feel that work *needs* to be done on this topic, and that I'm in a unique position to contribute to said work.