---
layout: post
title: "A look Back: CSNSLL on Discord"

---
<html>
  <head>
    <!--Load the AJAX API-->
    <script type="text/javascript" src="https://www.gstatic.com/charts/loader.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript">
 google.charts.load('current', {'packages':['sankey']});
   google.charts.setOnLoadCallback(drawChart);
 function drawChart() {
        var data = new google.visualization.DataTable();
        data.addColumn('string', 'From');
        data.addColumn('string', 'To');
        data.addColumn('number', 'Weight');
        data.addRows([
          ['Journal', '4chan', 1],
          ['Conference paper', 'accessibility', 1],
          ['Journal', 'accessibility', 1],
          ['Blog', 'accessibility', 1],
          ['Conference paper', 'affordances', 3],
          ['Thesis', 'affordances', 6],
          ['Journal', 'affordances', 4],
          ['Journal', 'AO3', 1],
          ['Conference paper', 'Big data', 1],
          ['Journal', 'biopolitics', 1],
          ['Journal', 'Blockchain', 3],
          ['Conference paper', 'Bots', 5],
          ['Journal', 'Bots', 5],
          ['Journal', 'Case study', 6],
          ['Conference paper', 'Case study', 2],
          ['Thesis', 'Case study', 2],
          ['Conference paper', 'Communities of care', 1],
          ['Journal', 'Communities of care', 2],
          ['Journal', 'Communities of learning', 6],
          ['Conference paper', 'Communities of learning', 5],
          ['Conference paper', 'Community discovery', 2],
          ['Conference paper', 'Community discovery', 1],
          ['Conference paper', 'Computer science', 4],
          ['Conference paper', 'conferencing', 1],
          ['Journal', 'Conferencing', 1],
          ['Conference paper', 'COVID-19', 11],
          ['Journal', 'COVID-19', 13],
          ['Report', 'COVID-19', 2],
          ['Blog', 'COVID-19', 1],
          ['Conference paper', 'Discourse analysis', 1],
          ['Thesis', 'Discourse analysis', 1],
          ['Journal', 'Discourse analysis', 1],
          ['Journal', 'Cryptocurrency', 4],
          ['Journal', 'D/ARC', 3],
          ['Conference Paper', 'D/ARC', 1],
          ['Blog', 'D/ARC', 1],
          ['Journal', 'Data Visualization', 2],
          ['Conference paper', 'Data Visualizatoin', 1],
          ['Journal', 'Disinformation', 1],
          ['Conference paper', 'Distance learning', 3],
          ['Journal', 'Distance learning', 7],
          ['Journal', 'ethnography', 1],
          ['Journal', 'Facebook', 1],
          ['Journal', 'Fan studies', 3],
          ['Thesis', 'Fan studies', 1],
          ['Book section', 'Fan studies', 1],
          ['Journal', 'gab', 1],
          ['Conference paper', 'gamification', 3],
          ['Journal', 'gamification', 2],
          ['Book section', 'gamification', 1],
          ['Journal', 'gaming communities', 5],
          ['Conference paper', 'gaming communities', 2],
          ['Thesis','gaming communities',1],
          ['Journal','governance',1],
          ['Conference paper','governance',1],
          ['Journal','hate speech', 4],
          ['Conference paper','hate speech',1],
          ['Book section','hate speech',1],
          ['Journal','healthcare',2],
          ['Conference paper','inclusive design',2],
          ['Journal','interviews',2],
          ['Thesis','interviews',1],
          ['Conference paper','interviews',2],
          ['Journal','language pedagogy',3],
          ['Conference paper','language pedagogy',1],
          ['Conference paper','livestreaming',1],
          ['Journal','livestreaming',1],
          ['Journal','Mental wellbeing',1],
          ['Conference paper','Mental wellbeing',1],
          ['Journal','Moderation',6],
          ['Conference paper','Moderation',4]
        ]);
        var options = {'title':'How Much Pizza I Ate Last Night',
                       'width':600,
                       'height':300};
            var chart = new google.visualization.Sankey(document.getElementById('sankey_basic'));
        chart.draw(data, options);
      }
    </script>
  </head>

  <body>
    <!--Div that will hold the pie chart-->
    <div id="chart_div"></div>
  </body>
</html>
Hello to the various folks reading this post, today I'm reflecting on a past project, one that is (mostly) outside of my interest: linguistics.

Apologies to all the linguists out there, but my experience in linguistics was not ideal. I was required ot take at least *one* linguistics credit to complete my masters, and so I settled on Global Englishes. While very important work, much of that course was focused on pedagogy. With no interest in teaching composition, and no experience with ESL teaching, I was out of my depth in more ways than one.

Looking for some familiar footing, I decided to look at the types of language-learning platforms that were out there, and found a sizeable amount of work on SNSLLs: Social Networking Sites for Language Learning. These sites were tailor built social networks which connected language-learners, allowing them to practice conversation, and motivate each other.

However, I found that there was less work out there on language learning as it took place on pre-existing social networks a la Discord. Sensing an opportunity, I started my analysis with this question: how do people learn language on Discord? What language-ideologies inform said learning?

I began by scraping the first 10 pages of language-learning community advertisements on the third-party site disboard, and analyzing the community-made interfaces and affordances therein. (If you're interested in this scraper, check out the [D/ARC!](https://darcmode.org/)) However, on the recommendation of the professor, I narrowed my analysis to the communities themselves.

So, the challenge for me was to connect Global Englishes to my work on Discord. Luckily, after some cursory searching, I found that there was an active series of Discord servers dedicated to teaching English as a second language. And, not suprisingly, in the largest of these servers, Native-speakers were given authority in their community, through multiple interface/affordance design choices. 

I likely won't publish my findings, as it would require ex-post-facto IRB approval. However, it was a lesson for me in two regards: 1. I should not have listened to my professor, and did the method that would have let me PUBLISH afterwards, and 2. It let me see first-hand the flexibility of private messaging apps in networking their users, informing my ongoing work on Discord and Telegram. 